 In a stunning blow against bullshit, Oxford University recently shut down the Future of Humanity Institute, also known as FHI, among the many wealthy fans of its founder, Nick Bostrom. Known for his formulation of the Simulation Hypothesis, which is a leading piece of bullshit, for hyping the threat from AI, Elon Musk, unsurprisingly, is or was among the key financial supporters of FHI. Long-termism and effective altruism -- also FHI initiatives -- are labels that are on the surface attractive or, at worst, benign if wrong-headed. But in many instances, they are destructive. For example, telling people Mars can be colonized by humans and that being multi-planetary is sensible diverts attention from duller but vastly more pressing issues. The real answer to colonizing Mars is something a lot of people would find disturbing. Humans won't be the colonizers, the species of post-human beings would have to be engineered for the role of colonists, which is why, I suppose, transhumanism is in the mix at FHI. That's just for starters. It gets much more disturbing if one really wants living beings permanently on Mars, but the sci-fi fantasy version with humans living in verdant, airy glass domes and their offspring in child-sized spacesuits is what gets sold to the public. Long-termism ignores the fact that it is impossible to assign meaningful likelihoods to the vast majority of threats that are many hundreds of years into the future. Meanwhile, disease, environmental poisons, and physical risks as mundane as road safety kill and degrade the quality of life of huge numbers of people alive today and of our children and their children. Long-termism is a distraction from what we know, what we can reliably measure, and what, too often, we fail to improve. Why do wealthy people promote such foolishness? Some of it is plain nonsense. They're not knowing any better. They've got the money to play out childhood fantasies, and so they do. Some of them believe they are doing good, but some of it is darker. Long-termism is used as a shield against accusations of them being raging dicks in the present and in the immediate future. Fix what you can today. Make education and health care more available. Feed the hungry. Remove racists and sexists from positions of power. In turn, the people that had been in need and oppressed tomorrow's problems.