 People have made a lot of wrong guesses as to how I made these self-generated 3D printable and functional joints, and the real answer is maybe surprising, but I think the coolest part. My approach was at least partially inspired by Anthony Gaudi, one of my favorites, who famously invited forces of nature into his process and allowed it to make creative contributions to his work. He would do things like tie a string, the weight in the middle of it, to create this drooping and graceful curve that would eventually dictate the shape of his spires of the Cathedral of the Sagrada Familia. This was really brilliant, and it was an early version of what we now call parametric design, which is the process that I'm kind of using right now. The reason why these joints look weirdly natural, like they're imitating real objects, is because they were actually formed using a simple simulation that I actually designed to imitate natural forces interactively and fluidly. I am trying to do what Gaudi did, and that is step back from making every decision and instead of create systems that create, and collaborating with those systems. But this is tricky, because computers are notoriously bad collaborators. I don't care if you call them computer-aided design softwares, or CAD, they don't aid design as much as they get in the way, and they aren't design tools as much as they are tools for drafting, and even though they're really good at drafting, they're not design tools. And it doesn't need to be like this, it just is, and it's really frustrating. When I saw Gaudi's workshop in Barcelona for the first time, and got to see his sketches, and his prototypes, and his experiments up close, the reason for this became really, really clear by seeing something in Gaudi that no book or lecture ever prepared me to see. And that was, this man was having fun. He was having a great time. He was locked in, and he was enjoying himself. He wasn't just creating processes, he was creating playgrounds to play in. And I don't care how serious or austere he seemed to be to the people around him. I hear "Unbridled" creatively when I see it. The man was devoted to his curiosity, with a fervor that bordered on fanatical, and I respect the hell out of that. For computers to be a worthwhile collaborative tool, that's the mindset, and that's the flow state that it needs to be effective at facilitating, rather than fighting against. And that's why the processes I'm creating here, I'm not just leveraging the computational power effectively, the process is always immediate, visual fluid, and importantly, fun as hell.